= W3C Validators Gem README

W3C Validators is a Ruby wrapper for the World Wide Web Consortium's online 
validation services.

It supports the markup validator, the feed validator and the CSS validator.

=== Installation

  gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
  gem install alexdunae-w3c_validators

=== Usage

There are three main validator classes available, the W3CValidators::MarkupValidator 
(used for HTML), the W3CValidators::FeedValidator and the 
W3CValidators::CSSValidator.

Each validator has offers three different validation methods.

* +validate_text+ methods take a string
* +validate_file+ methods take a path to a file or an IO object
* +validate_uri+ methods take a published URL

In addition, the W3CValidators::MarkupValidator has a validate_uri_quickly method, which 
performs a HEAD request against the markup validation service.  The Results 
of this call give an error count but no error details.

==== Using a local validator

Each of the three validators allows you to specify a custom path to the 
validator.  You can set your own validator like this:

  validator = MarkupValidator.new(:validator_uri => 'http://localhost/check')

==== Using a proxy server

You can use a proxy server by passing in its information in the contructor.

  validator = MarkupValidator.new(:proxy_server => 'proxy.example.com',
                                  :proxy_port   => 80,
                                  :proxy_user   => 'optional',
                                  :proxy_pass   => 'optional')

=== Examples

==== Example #1: Markup validator, local file

  require 'w3c_validators'
  
  include W3CValidators

  @validator = MarkupValidator.new
  
  # override the DOCTYPE
  @validator.set_doctype!(:html32)
  
  # turn on debugging messages
  @validator.set_debug!(true)

  file = File.dirname(__FILE__) + '/fixtures/markup.html'
  results = @validator.validate_file(fp)

  if results.errors.length > 0
    results.errors.each do |err|
      puts err.to_s
    end
  else
    puts 'Valid!'
  end
  
  puts 'Debugging messages'
  
  results.debug_messages.each do |key, value|
    puts "#{key}: #{value}"
  end


==== Example #2: Feed validator, remote file

  require 'w3c_validators'
  
  include W3CValidators

  @validator = FeedValidator.new

  results = @validator.validate_uri('http://example.com/feed.xml')

  if results.errors.length > 0
    results.errors.each do |err|
      puts err.to_s
    end
  else
    puts 'Valid!'
  end

==== Example #3: CSS validator, text fragment

  require 'w3c_validators'
  
  include W3CValidators

  @validator = CSSValidator.new

  results = @validator.validate_text('body { margin: 0px; }')

  if results.errors.length > 0
    results.errors.each do |err|
      puts err.to_s
    end
  else
    puts 'Valid!'
  end

=== Tests

Run unit tests using <tt>rake test</tt>.  Note that there is a one second delay 
between each call to the W3C's validators per their request.


=== Credits and code

Documentation is available at {http://code.dunae.ca/w3c_validators}[http://code.dunae.ca/w3c_validators].

Source is available on {GitHub}[https://github.com/alexdunae/w3c-validators]

Written by Alex Dunae ({dunae.ca}[http://dunae.ca/], e-mail 'code' at the same domain), 2007.

Thanks to {Ryan King}[http://theryanking.com/] for creating the 0.9.2 update.

Thanks to {Ryan King}[http://theryanking.com/], {Jonathan Julian}[http://jonathanjulian.org/] and Sylvain LaFleur for creating the 0.9.3 update.

Thanks to {James Rosen}[http://github.com/jamesarosen] and {Roman Shterenzon}[http://github.com/romanbsd] for creating the 1.0.1 update.